# **Welsh Thing**
1. Attendence
  * Row, Noah, Alex, Delilah, Oliver, Alexi, Joe, Robin, Lara, Sarah, Izzy
    * 12 people
2. Intro to discussion.
3. Quarterly Reports
  * Oliver (Chair of DF Committee)
    *
  * Alexi (Shadow Treasurer)
    *
  * Robin (Events)
    *
  * Joe (Accessibility)
    * Recently we have been working on setting up a system for accessibility reps to follow for events. this includes:
      * Writing a site assessments, in full detail. Researching distances, travel times and prices to get to the site. This should help events reps and other accessibility reps in the future to decide which site to go to.
    * Writing up documents with accessibility info for people to see before they book, which don't have the address or specific info in them. Just to give people and idea of what it's like on site
    * Writing up site reviews after the event takes place detailing all the problems faced and ways of fixing them.
    * We also made a handover pack for future accessibility reps, and a role summary that could possibly go on the website.
    * We have been helping with Spring Awakening (SA) preparation, mainly getting the welcome pack ready.
    * Generally things are going well and feeling on top of responsibilities :)

  * Izzy (Laymember & GC)
    *
  * Sarah (Fundraising)
    *
  * Joel (Secretary)
    *
  * Row & Noah (Mest-Up)
    *
  * Alex (Shadow Events & Venturer Liaison)
    *
  * Lara (Treasurer)
    * I spent a lot of time, energy and stress on trying to sort out the Erasmus grant refunding situation. After lot of back and forth between us and central Woodcraft, we split the cost 50/50 with them. This is not ideal, and I disagree with Kinderfreunde not paying any money but I am not willing to put the amount of effort in that would be required to possibly change their mind. I’ve been working very closely with Alexi, doing fairer fair, incomings and outgoings and chasing people up fo old event payments over the last two years. Robin, Alexi and I reviewed events budgets very roughly. I edited the money policy to add some stuff with what happened with Erasmus in mind. I also helped find the venue for welsh thing.
    * In the next quarter I aim to get the bank account sorted, chase up worker’s beer from 2017, make a centralised “naughty list” to better keep track of who owes us money, chase more people up, and begin updating the treasurer’s guide to treasuring with Alexi. I have a positive outlook on the next quarter, as I no longer have a full time job and long commute! (whoop whoop)
  * Brynn (Safeguarding & GC)
    * **SG** - I have had several cases all come up at the same time that I have been dealing with but have been very slow on. So I would like to find a better system for dealing with this because right now it isn’t ok. I have talked several of these over with Deb’s now so that should hopefully help.
    * **GC** - I have missed one meeting so as that I could come to the last thing but made it to the most recent meeting in February. We submitted motions to AG one of which was to raise membership fees but we have decided to raise the wage one made on mode average wage and the unwaged to remain at £12 a year to respect the DFs in the moment and that. This may or may not pass at AG this year. We have also decided to officially back the climate strikes that are happening in the UK which I think people in DF should now make an effort to promote as we can now officially back them.
  * Beth (Laymember)
    *
  * Alfie, Eliot, Hazel, Chris need to do
    *
  * **ADD OTHER PEOPLES**
1. Venturer Camp
  * We have all the centers decided
    * There's no rainbow center so centers should try and incorporate it into other centre programmes
  * Precamp is at the same time as AG
    * May speed up

1. Policy Policy & Food policy
  * Joel-put in place last year, the food policy was kind of a mess, lots of contention. Joel rewrote the entire policy around Althing, change. most important thing is that anyone can eat and everything else is up to KPs discression.
    * Change the policy policy to be less bare.
    * See Policy written by Joel
      * Allergies
      * Food requirements
      * Mental health and Food
      * Animal Products have issues, but also inclusivity
      * Sustainability, Removed a bit about food miles
      * Ethical Eating
      * Local produce, difficult to use, not as much emphasis
      * Reducing cost
    * Lara - Reducing cost doesn't need to be in a policy as this informs ethics rather than stratergy
    * Sarah - Maybe just have a sentance about keeping costs down but then refer to seperate guide to KP or some such document.
    * Noah - Change to say that cost is
    * Action Joel- Discount for the coop, talk to chris about Guide to kp
    * Joel Policy Policy - Anyone can put forward a policy, discuss at a Thing may not be representative of
    * Also send to the Secretary rather than Chair
    * How to write a policy, policies should be discussed multiple times, when writting Policy just doi it
    * Lara - Add Vctte the opption to write policies, minimum number to approve a policy or at least someone not on Committee
    * Working out numbers of people needed to approve policies
    * Should be at least 5 PEOPLES
    * Some Committee
    * One on Committee, One non Committeeve people.
    * Lara - Policy changes should be submitted a fortnight in advance
    * Joel - Github publicly available policies
    * Alexi - Link to Policies on website and facebook
    * Lara - Links to google drive
    * Action Alfie to make a pinned post with links to policy and important things
    * Action Joel to add policies to website.
    * Joel - Will be or should be.
    * Lara - SHould, puts onus on you.
1. Campaigns 4 Climate Change/Fridays 4 Future
  * It's a youth strike in which young people leave schools on Friday
    * is having a lot of impact
  * Venturers are doing it
    * How can we support them
      * Press Statement
        * **Action: Lara, Alex, Izzy, Alexi, Alfie to write and publish the press Statement**
    * GC is producing a supporting Statement
      * GC is making resources for group nights
      * GC wants DFs to help
        * **We cannot recommend children strike but we can support those who are striking**
        * **Action: Izzy and Alexi to look into the Action Plan by GC**
  * Beth Irving did workshop around the subject
    * something for GC to look at
      * **Action Joe to talk to Beth about the workshop**
  * We can suggest that people join as individuals
    * We should follow the role of GC and only support as woodcraft
      * We shouldn't do this at a DF Event or at sessions
        * "DFs, we're like the Borg"
      * **Action: Robin, Alexi, Joel, workshops for SA and other events on the thing**
1. Events Budget Review
  * Upped Food budget
    * £3 too low, £4 too high, £3.25 seems reasonable
  * Upped Accommodation
    * £3.50 pp/n
  * Surplus is little but there is still profit, just already allocated for stuff
  * Programme
    * £2 too £1.15
  * It's very difficult to raise prices, but it is a necessary evil as the price of running events.
  * last time it was raised was 2015 and 2013 before that
  * Could we ask other DFs to subsidies other DF who can't
    * There are possible ways of doing this
  * showing the exact ways that the budget has changed
    * It's difficult for fundraising to get money for widen participation as we aren't a underpriviliged group
  * It can be very difficut to get people to pay more money
  * Using a system for getting money similar to Fairer fare or just adding on to the fairer fundraising
    * adding to fairer fare doesn't help people who live Local
  * emailing parents to ask for money for the solidarity fund.
  * Fairer Fare doesn't get used much, could we split it to reduce price for someone
  * **Action: Robin to add this stuff to the Events form**
  * Could we have card reader for people on events to make it easier
    * **Action Lara and Alexi to find out about that**
      * Only usable in sites with data
      * £30 for one but has a charge of 1%
  * Site Prices
    * WW has a flat cost for site
    * SA has both a flat cost and per person per night site cost
    * DF Camp has per person night site cost
  * Taking money from fairer?
    * taking £1 from £5
      * £2 is a lot and could cause bug issues for people
    * £1 should be a good limit
    * We should advertise Fairer Fare more
      * **Action: Lara, make thing for info pack**
    * The solidarity fund is based on general income and can be very different to price of travel
    * solidarity is much harder to figure out
    * Increase the amount for solidarity to £2 but not decrease the Fairer fare
    * **Action: Lara, making/adding a budget review policy piece**
    * **Action: Lara, Alexi, look into solutions for Friends of the DFs, and do a dry run through google forms to ask whether people would.**
    * Should we borrow the same system as General woodcraft or should we make our own
    * We can set up direct debit
    * Parents are a good way to make this happen
    * We need to be very clear why we are asking for money
      * we can use the stuff from the workshop that was run at WW
    * Non-Woodie parents are more likely to give money for various reasons.
    * **Action: Tom, We should have a Donate page when we can**
1. Erasmus
  * We gave Erasmus 4000 and woodcraft gave 4000 and the Austrians haven't given anything
  * Kinderfreunde haven't paid anything
  * Lara is writing a policy to avoid a repeat
1.  Payment Policy
  * The money spent on a event is decided by the coordinating but it's suggested the have control over the budget
  * Making the Events rep check for people with unpaid event costs
  * Spending is new
    * Trying to find a balance between autonomy and safety in terms of money
    * Adding examples of spending that should be checked with the treasurer
  * **Action: Lara, Find Mest-Up Money**
    * We should have a limit of how much you can spend without informing the treasurer
1. Mest-Up Policy
  * Is the content appropriate for a policy or is it more a Guide?
  * There should still be some element of what MEST UP does, maybe shouldn't be a policy
  * No current description of MEST UP, this should be made into a pack that all reps get when they're trained, printed version, available on website/online?
  * Apathy regarding changing MEST UP, people don't suggest change but instead point out flaws. There needs to be a policy but needs to be worked on over the next few months
  * People who are going to be reps should have input into the policy/Guide
  * Ready for Althing
  * There was an action to have a fake debrief fishbowl to show people the workings of MEST UP debriefs
  * Would be useful so people know what they're getting into
  * Possibly film MEST UP training? Would require someone to film it
  * Debrief needs to change and be fixed
  * Nobody comes to MEST UP workshops
  * Vcamp is also a thing, as is many other things, there might not be enough time for MEST UP team to do in time without involvement form others
  * Maybe form a team to help? (Working group)
  * Vcamp team want MEST UP to be as easy as possible during Camp
  * Description could be handed out to people at Camp
  * **Action: Oliver, Joel, Delilah, Issy, Joe, Row, Noah, MEST UP guide working group to be made**
  * For SA we should try get a polished guide, or at least something to give to people, even if it looks bad
  * Separate policy and guide to be made
  * Brynn and potentially even Debs should be involved in this discussion

1. Vote on reviewing policies every two years: 11 ayes, 1 abstention

  * **Action Joel to add updating clause to every policy**

1. Financial Report

  * Old number for money we have at the moment, but currently we've had £280 from STWWM Events
  * No money from NE thing
  * Winter Wonderland:
      * Received £4880  payments
      * People don't attend whole event, many late cancellations
      * 800-1200 quid more payments could be collected, quite bad but kinda happens
  * Expenditure:
      * NE Thing, £320, considerably less than last time, but was vastly unattended
      * Winter Wonderland, can't compare with last time because it was one event, we haven't spent that much
      * So far £183 surplus plus £781 thing fund
      * Really good, whoop whoop
    * No equipment, but silent headphones made programme go way over budget
    * Rename clan duties to "compulsary cooking workshop"
    * Erasmus money is slightly less than expected, still big hit to finances
    * Total money left is estimated 15 large, but was 21 big ones as of mid January
    * We probably won't go into reserves, hopefully
    * Cool, wonderful
* **Action: Alfie, Put all the Df Events in the woodcraft calander**
1. Campaigns role
  * We don't have a campaigns rep
  * People can feel pressured into filling a role
  * Changing Campaigns to Activism?
    * We should keep looking for a campaigns rep but we could
      * **Action: write a motion to change campaigns to Activism**
    *  Activism doesn't have a focused campaign
    * Don't remove campaigns, but add activism
  * Make campaigns run with a individual campaign
  * **Action: Robin, get the programme for DF Camp to include choosing a campaign**
  * Mind Map of the Activism Role
    * **Action: Joel, Scan in the Mind Map**
